So, welcome to
Using Virtual and Override, some meaty C++ terms!
We're basically going to be focusing on this part of our
architecture, the Tank Player Controller talking to the Tank, making sure that we've got
that reference. And by the end of it, not too much will be happening, but we'll be understanding
more about the hierarchy of
inheritance, how our PlayerController inherits from our controller, etc.
and then how we extend the functionality of the engine. So, I'll see you in there!
So, in the previous video, we wrote this GetControlledTank() method.
Now, I would be nervous about writing a method, pretty much immediately testing to make
sure it works right. We don't really know if GetPawn() is the right method, or is it Get
ControlledPawn? We're not 100% sure this Cast is working, we especially want to test it,
and to test it we want to be doing so
either in BeginPlay or Tick. We want to be able to log out to the Console
and be able to see that we actually have got a tank and which tank we're
possessing. So, if we play the game and then hit F8 to
de-possess from the tank, we can then get our mouse back, and we can go to the Content Browser.
Sorry, the World Outliner. And we could have a look and see that the
TankPlayerController... Where is it?
Here yep, this instance of the TankPlayerController blueprint here is the Player
Controller, and it'll be possessing this tank here, Tank_BP10. And we
can tell that, because if we move outside of it and then repossess we go back to it, and
also, our control works for this tank. So, we are possessing the tank, that's great!
So, we should be able to get that ControlledTank. So, let's firstly look at how we would do
that in Blueprint. So, let's follow the whole story through,
as to what's going on here. Firstly, let's start in the GameMode
blueprint. In the GameMode blueprint, there's a couple of things we've got set.
The Default Pawn, the thing that we are spawning at the Player
Start that we've put in the world, is the Tank blueprint. That's good! And the PlayerController class
is the TankPlayerController blueprint. Good! You want to make sure yours are
set appropriately. So, this is what puts the Pawn in the world, the Tank in the world, and
possesses it with the PlayerController. Now, let's take a look at the
TankPlayerControllerClass. The next question here... Sorry, not the class but the
blueprint. The next question is here is, is this appropriately
parented? Well, it isn't actually. I don't know if I didn't do that in the last
video or if it lost my changes, but you do need to make sure your TankPlayerController blueprint,
under the Class Settings, is parented appropriately
to your TankPlayerController C++ class.
That's really important! OK, so here we are in the TankPlayerController. Let's just
do this test in blueprint first. If we look for "tick",
pop ourselves an Event Tick node. You don't need to do this, by the way, if you don't want. You can just
watch this, I'm just doing something diagnostic, and Get
Player Pawn. There you go! So, Get Player
Pawn is a method that will Get the Player Pawn, i.e. the tank that we've put in the scene.
If we then take its return value and turn it into a string,
and then we do a Print. I don't think you've seen this Print node before,
but this Print String node is quite handy. So, we change the type
that comes out of here, into a string, and we print it. Now, where do we want to print it?
Well, let's print it both to the Screen and the Log, this time just for fun! Let's see what this does!
Print, play! OK, I'm just going to de-possess to have a look. All over the
screen and all over the log is the fact that we are possessing Tank_BP_C_11,
which if you look at the World Outliner is this one here.
It has an extra C in it, but if you hover over it, you'll see it's ID Name is
matching what's on the screen in the log. So, indeed we are possessing the tank and the
blueprint proves that, and we're using the method GetPlayerPawn() in here
and that works absolutely fine! So, I'm going to delete that diagnostic there!
That kind of test, it works from that standpoint, but what we need is a BeginPlay method inside
of our C++ class so we can do a similar test in there.
It's just that there isn't one, so we need to understand a little bit more about inheritance
for this. And Overriding, so what is Overriding? Well, right
up the Inheritance Tree... Let me show you the Inheritance Tree.
If we do "playercontroller unreal", for example,
then if you look at the actual API docs, which is this URL
here, you'll see that the APlayerController inherits from the AController
and the AController inherits from the AActor. OK, and if you were to look in the AController,
you would actually find there is no BeginPlay, if you did a search for that.
It's only AActor that has a BeginPlay, so the
last time, in the hierarchy, that BeginPlay was defined would have been in
AActor. We know that Actors have a Begin Play. So, what happens
with this inheritance business? Children inherit their parents'
methods. So, the controller has inherited BeginPlay from the Actor, and then the
PlayerController has inherited from there and then our
TankPlayerController has inherited in turn, so there's a whole string of inheritance.
If we want to use BeginPlay in our method, that is over here
in TankPlayerController, if we want to write
simply void BeginPlay() we can,
but we want to be sure we're overriding and adding to the functionality
that's further up the inheritance tree, because we want to make sure that all that other stuff that Unreal has
written is also happening. So, that way that you do that is,
using the keyword override. So we say, void BeginPlay(), but we type override.
And this says, please make sure there is something else up the Inheritance Tree,
with exactly this signature. Not BeginPlay
(int When), but precisely BeginPlay() with no parameters.
That's what the override does, it checks that it can find this upward in the hierarchy,
and it will literally go through all of this until it gets to Actor, and at
Actor it'll find BeginPlay(), which is here,
and then, you can see the signature is virtual void BeginPlay(). So, that brings us
onto what does this virtual word mean? Well, when BeginPlay() was first declared,
up at the Actor... Sorry, excuse me, tabbing. ...They will use
the keyword virtual, and that says that my children are allowed to override
or extend the functionality of this method. That's what the virtual bit does.
So, if the method was declared virtual, in the first place, which this was in the case of Begin
Play(), it can be overridden by any ancestor in the future.
Further more, specifying virtual on an already virtual method has no extra
effect. So, the general recipe for
doing this is you go find the original signature, virtual void BeginPlay(), and you use that.
So, what I'm saying is putting virtual here does nothing. Your
kind of saying, my children could also override my functionality if we
based something else on TankPlayerController, but actually, it doesn't matter if it's there or not.
So, here's the general recipe for getting your
BeginPlay or your Tick back. Let's show you the general recipe, and then, I'll try and bring it
together for you. It's a bit of a complex topic. How to override a virtual method.
Find the signature in the API reference. OK, well that's what we did, we
went to the API reference, we found the signature for BeginPlay eventually, and
there it is. OK, good! So, you copy it and
postfix override in the header file. OK, so these are in your slides, by the way, in this
recipe for doing this. So, you come in here, you do that, you paste the signature,
and you postfix with override, which is exactly what we just wrote.
And that says, please make sure I'm overriding, check me, keep an eye on me.
Define it in the C++ without virtual or override. OK, so when we define
this method, we just want void BeginPlay(). So, we come up here,
we go void, of course we need the class name as always in C++,
BeginPlay() matching the
signature and then some curly braces. Oops!
OK, that's cool! So,
with my insert on or my fingers. [Laughs] My microphone's
right between my face the the keyboard right now so. Alright,
what's the next step in the recipe? Here, usually called Super:: in the first
line of code. Alright, so let's try and bring this together for you. What's happened here
is, we're said I want to override and extend the functionality
of the BeginPlay() method, wherever that is in my parent classes.
Here we declare this, define rather the BeginPlay(), but
we want to start always by going Super::
BeginPlay() like that. Now, what that does is, it makes sure
that the BeginPlay() on the Super:: classes is being called. Let's have a look at the Tank.cpp. You'll see
that this isn't that unfamiliar. Look the boiler plate code already did exactly
this, didn't it? If we look at the Tank.h, let's start there. It
says virtual void BeginPlay() override; You see it's already
doing that, because somewhere higher than a tank, up in the APawn and maybe even higher
than that is the BeginPlay() definition in the first
place. Now, if you look in the Tank.cpp, we go
void BeginPlay(), no virtual no override
with a class name, and then, we go Super:: which says call the
default behavior, before we do anything else. That's why they've laid their boiler plate code out like this,
and that's why we are going to do exactly the same thing here.
Great! So, we have now got to the point where we
can log out to say, hey I'm here, I'm in BeginPlay() inside
the TankPlayerController. Let's just do that now, before we
go any further. Let's just UE_LOG
(LogTemp, Warning,
"PlayerController
Begin Play"); I put a semicolon on because it doesn't make any
difference. Of course, all this stuff needs to be wrapped in text, because of the nuances of these
macros, and let's just make sure this BeginPlay() actually gets called.
Compile our code.
This stuff on the screen should disappear, because we've taken it away on the blueprint now. That was
just a test, just to kind of tell the story of what's going on here.
If we play, we get "PlayerController Begin Play" called. You see it in the
LogTemp: there? Great! So that is working, we have intercepted Begin
Play. The final thing we need to do is just log out whether GetControlledTank
is actually working or not.
So, I want you to log out that possessed tank as an exercise just in logging and
in protecting pointers. There's a hint for you. But also, don't be disappointed
if for some reason it does not show you you're possessing a tank, we'll talk about why briefly in the
solution. Just get as far as it logging. Ideally, write two if statements. Remember
your UE_LOG macro, I've just started to use it. Consider an intermediate variable to make things
easier to write. Remember you're going to need to use the (contents at) operator with strings
inside a text macro, and the other thing I would say is, you'd probably want to
write an if condition so that you check and see if you've actually
got a possessed tank. If you haven't, say you haven't to the log, and if you have, say that you have and
report what it is. But as I say, if you keep seeing logs to say that you haven't
got it that's fine, we'll talk about why afterwards, as a subtlety here. OK, so
anyway, just try and get some logging that tells you whether you have or haven't currently
got a possessed tank, as far as the code is concerned.
Alright, so writing this sort of logging
is really useful for you, so you can tell what's going on. So, what we want to
do is, something like an intermediate variable auto PossessedTank
=... Wait a second, ControlledTank just to be
consistent. = GetControlled
Tank(); All of this is still just so that we can test to see if GetControlledTank() is working.
Right, now we've done that! This thing here is going to be returning
a Pointer to a tank, you see ATank *ControlledTank. So, the first thing
you should be doing here, as a reflex, is if not (!ControlledTank), protect that
pointer. You'll want to be coming in here and doing some sort of logging,
saying...
If I can copy correctly. Here we go! ("PlayerController..
Or Controlled, "PlayerController... Yeah, say it where it's
coming from, not possessing
a tank")); Otherwise,
you're going to want to log the tank that you are possessing,
which is something like this.
("PlayerController possessing
%s something like that, maybe with a
colon, so we can see we're expecting something on the end. And then, I'm
going to use a comma, and I am going to take the ControledlTank
but I'm going to get it's name.
like so.
And then, on all of this we need to put a start to turn
this string that would come out of that, or should I say out of all of that
lot. This lot here would be a string, so the star turns it
back into a TCHAR, start, etc. a quirk of this text macro. And
this will tell us whether or not we've got a ControlledTank. Let's hvae a look!
It's basically a very similar thing to what we did in blueprint, over here in the C++ now,
and we can leave some of that code in, actually. So, what's wrong with that?
ControlledTank, undeclared identifier. I think I've just
miss-spelled it with a single L. Yep!
Simple spelling error.
"PlayerController not possessing a
tank" interesting! OK, but the log is working.
So, interesting error and I suspect it's because my machine
crashed, just a couple of videos back, just after I had gone to my
Tank blueprint and reparented it onto... Yeah, that's correct!
...onto the Tank C++. So, if you're getting a similar error message, it's because you need to make
sure that your tank is actually parented onto the tank.
And the reason, for those of you who are curious, that was failing is
because it wouldn't have been able to cast the Pawn it finds to a tank here,
if the parenting isn't done properly. So, let's try that now! Just recompile
that blueprint and play. Great! Yep, "PlayerController
possessing: Tank_BP_C_40". If I just check that in the
World Outliner, that is indeed the tank we're possessing, you can see the yellow outline.
Oh good! Fantastic! So, let's move on!